Insightful passages and notes from Probability Theory by Jaynes.

Our theme is simply:
probability theory as extended logic. The ‘new’ perception amounts to the recognition that
the mathematical rules of probability theory are not merely rules for calculating frequencies
of ‘random variables’; they are also the unique consistent rules for conducting inference
(i.e. plausible reasoning) of any kind, and we shall apply them in full generality to that end.

Before Bayesian methods can be used, a problem must be developed beyond the
‘exploratory phase’ to the point where it has enough structure to determine all the needed
apparatus (a model, sample space, hypothesis space, prior probabilities, sampling distribution).

Indeed, some of them never evolve out of the exploratory phase.
Problems at this level call for more primitive means of assigning probabilities directly out
of our incomplete information.
For this purpose, the Principle of maximum entropy has at present the clearest theoretical
justification and is the most highly developed computationally, with an analytical apparatus
as powerful and versatile as the Bayesian one. To apply it we must define a sample space, but
do not need any model or sampling distribution. In effect, entropy maximization creates a model
for us out of our data, which proves to be optimal by so many different criteria that it is hard
to imagine circumstances where one would not want to use it in a problem where we have a sample
space but no model.

Usually, such hypotheses extend beyond what is directly observable in the data, and in that sense
we might say that Bayesian methods are – or at least may be – speculative. If the extra hypotheses
are true, then we expect that the Bayesian results will improve on maximum entropy; if they are
false, the Bayesian inferences will likely be worse.

to make progress in a new area, it is necessary to develop a healthy disrespect for tradition and
authority, which have retarded progress throughout the 20th century.

All discussions of these questions start by giving examples of the contrast between
deductive reasoning and plausible reasoning. As is generally credited to the Organon of
Aristotle (fourth century bc) deductive reasoning (apodeixis) can be analyzed ultimately
into the repeated application of two strong syllogisms.

This is the kind of reasoning we would like to use all the time; but, as noted, in almost all
the situations confronting us we do not have the right kind of information to allow this kind
of reasoning. We fall back on weaker syllogisms (epagoge).

Is it possible to develop a consistent ‘one-dimensional’ model of plausible reasoning?
LOL I don't think so, but who knows.
